README.md, before:

# ClaudeBar

> Your Claude Max usage, always visible. Never hit rate limits by surprise.

![ClaudeBar on Omarchy](screenshot-desktop.png)

<p align="center">
  <img src="screenshot-tooltip.png" alt="ClaudeBar tooltip" width="360">
</p>

## Quick Install (Omarchy)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresreibel/claudebar/main/install.sh | bash
```

Then add to your waybar config and restart:

```bash
omarchy-restart-waybar
```

## Manual Install

**Step 1:** Copy the script

```bash
curl -o ~/.local/bin/claudebar.ts \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresreibel/claudebar/main/claudebar.ts
```

**Step 2:** Add to `~/.config/waybar/config.jsonc`

```jsonc
"modules-right": ["custom/claudebar", ...],

"custom/claudebar": {
  "exec": "~/.bun/bin/bun ~/.local/bin/claudebar.ts",
  "interval": 60,
  "return-type": "json",
  "tooltip": true,
  "on-click": "xdg-open https://claude.ai/settings/usage"
}
```

**Step 3:** Restart waybar

```bash
killall waybar && waybar &
# Or on Omarchy: omarchy-restart-waybar
```

## What It Shows

**Bar:**
```
↓W24% 3h26m
│ │   └──── Weekly resets in 3h 26m
│ └─────── 24% under expected pace
└───────── Pacing indicator (↓ under, → on track, ↑ ahead)
```

**Tooltip (hover):**
```
Session: 7% (63% under)
         │   └─────────── 63% under expected pace for this session
         └────────────── 7% of session limit used

Weekly: 55% (27% under)
        │    └────────── 27% under expected pace for the week
        └─────────────── 55% of weekly limit used
```

Pacing compares your actual usage to where you'd be if spending evenly across the period.

## Requirements

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) — `curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash`
- [Claude CLI](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) — must be logged in
- Claude Max subscription

## Why This Approach?

- **No API keys** — Uses OAuth token from Claude CLI (`~/.claude/.credentials.json`)
- **Official API** — Calls `api.anthropic.com/api/oauth/usage` for exact data
- **Auto-refresh** — Refreshes OAuth token before expiry, no manual re-auth needed
- **Single file** — One ~150-line TypeScript script, no dependencies beyond Bun
- **Waybar native** — Outputs JSON that Waybar understands natively

## Troubleshooting

| Shows | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| `⚠ auth` | Run `claude` to log in |
| `⚠ exp` | Run `claude` to refresh token |
| `⚠ err` | Check network connection |

## Color Coding (Optional)

Add to `~/.config/waybar/style.css`:

```css
#custom-claudebar.warning { color: #ff9e64; }
#custom-claudebar.critical { color: #f7768e; }
```

- **Weekly 10%+ ahead of pace** or **≥75% used** → orange (warning)
- **Weekly 25%+ ahead of pace** or **≥90% used** → red (critical)

## Related

- [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) — Highly customizable status bar for Wayland
- [CodexBar](https://github.com/steipete/CodexBar) — Usage meter for macOS (inspiration)
- [Omarchy](https://omarchy.org/) — Beautiful Linux with Hyprland

## Thanks

- [Peter Steinberger](https://github.com/steipete) — CodexBar inspiration
- [DHH](https://github.com/dhh) — Omarchy & O'Saasy license

## License

[O'Saasy](https://osaasy.dev/)

Commit message:

feat(waybar): Enhance pacing display with usage percentage and time elapsed metrics in README and logic [working]

README.md, after:

# ClaudeBar

> Your Claude Max usage, always visible. Never hit rate limits by surprise.

![ClaudeBar on Omarchy](screenshot-desktop.png)

<p align="center">
  <img src="screenshot-tooltip.png" alt="ClaudeBar tooltip" width="360">
</p>

## Quick Install (Omarchy)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresreibel/claudebar/main/install.sh | bash
```

Then add to your waybar config and restart:

```bash
omarchy-restart-waybar
```

## Manual Install

**Step 1:** Copy the script

```bash
curl -o ~/.local/bin/claudebar.ts \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresreibel/claudebar/main/claudebar.ts
```

**Step 2:** Add to `~/.config/waybar/config.jsonc`

```jsonc
"modules-right": ["custom/claudebar", ...],

"custom/claudebar": {
  "exec": "~/.bun/bin/bun ~/.local/bin/claudebar.ts",
  "interval": 60,
  "return-type": "json",
  "tooltip": true,
  "on-click": "xdg-open https://claude.ai/settings/usage"
}
```

**Step 3:** Restart waybar

```bash
killall waybar && waybar &
# Or on Omarchy: omarchy-restart-waybar
```

## What It Shows

**Bar:**
```
◉66% ↓ ⧖88% 19h47m
 │   │  │   └────── Weekly resets in 19h 47m
 │   │  └────────── 88% of weekly window elapsed
 │   └───────────── Pacing (↓ under, → on track, ↑ ahead)
 └───────────────── 66% of weekly limit used
```

**Tooltip (hover):**
```
Session: 7% (63% under)
         │   └─────────── 63% under expected pace for this session
         └────────────── 7% of session limit used

Weekly: 55% (27% under)
        │    └────────── 27% under expected pace for the week
        └─────────────── 55% of weekly limit used
```

Pacing compares your actual usage to where you'd be if spending evenly across the period.

## Requirements

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) — `curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash`
- [Claude CLI](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) — must be logged in
- Claude Max subscription

## Why This Approach?

- **No API keys** — Uses OAuth token from Claude CLI (`~/.claude/.credentials.json`)
- **Official API** — Calls `api.anthropic.com/api/oauth/usage` for exact data
- **Auto-refresh** — Refreshes OAuth token before expiry, no manual re-auth needed
- **Single file** — One ~150-line TypeScript script, no dependencies beyond Bun
- **Waybar native** — Outputs JSON that Waybar understands natively

## Troubleshooting

| Shows | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| `⚠ auth` | Run `claude` to log in |
| `⚠ exp` | Run `claude` to refresh token |
| `⚠ err` | Check network connection |

## Color Coding (Optional)

Add to `~/.config/waybar/style.css`:

```css
#custom-claudebar.warning { color: #ff9e64; }
#custom-claudebar.critical { color: #f7768e; }
```

- **Weekly 10%+ ahead of pace** or **≥75% used** → orange (warning)
- **Weekly 25%+ ahead of pace** or **≥90% used** → red (critical)

## Related

- [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) — Highly customizable status bar for Wayland
- [CodexBar](https://github.com/steipete/CodexBar) — Usage meter for macOS (inspiration)
- [Omarchy](https://omarchy.org/) — Beautiful Linux with Hyprland

## Thanks

- [Peter Steinberger](https://github.com/steipete) — CodexBar inspiration
- [DHH](https://github.com/dhh) — Omarchy & O'Saasy license

## License

[O'Saasy](https://osaasy.dev/)
